README.md, before:

# birth_music
##### A program to create an original song based on a birthday inputted (currently in development)

by Jane Plomp

---

## Plans/goals:

#### What I definitely want for end product:

- ~~Accept user input for birthday~~ Drafted

- Make input form impossible to mess up

- ~~Turn birthday into easily accessible array~~ Did a string, can .charAt()

- ~~Set up tone so that notes equated with a variable (do=C4, re=D4, etc), starting with key of C Major. Will eventually update to accommodate different keys~~

- ~~Play one note for each note in birthday (1=do, 2=re, so on and so forth) to make a basic melody. Start and end with do, with birthday notes in between (for musical cohesion) (but listen to how it sounds rhythmically then decide). If last birthday note is ti or higher, go to high do for end. For example, my birthday (07/21/1997) would be: do-ti(low)-ti(high)-re-do-do-re(high)-re(high)-ti-do~~

- ~~Create new keys to use. Key for song = birth month (so January = C major, February = Db major, etc)~~

- ~~Tempo = birth day (1-31) multiplied by 2, plus eighty. (May adjust exact equation based on sound)~~

- ~~Chords = Make each melody note into polyphonic group of notes for chord (melody note = bass). So: in key of C major, if melody at a certain point = la, then play la do and mi (which would become A4, E4, and C4 in this case. By doing in this manner, there will naturally be inversions)~~

- Year mod 12 == Instrument(different synths/settings, etc), based on Chinese zodiac sign
#### What may be challenging, but I intend to exist in end product:

- Chord pattern: arpeggio up, arpeggio down, altogether, any other variation. Uncertain which number(s) to connect to. (Season for notes 2-3, 30/4 intervals for notes 4-5, year (notes 6-9)?)

#### Would be fun to add if time is available:

- Make song long through other variations (play forward-backwards-forwarb for ABA song? First A ends on so instead of do?)

- Can choose American date version (MMDDYYYY) or normal date version (DDMMYYYY) which alters first four notes of melody.

- Bass notes? More layering? Specific inversion control? triplets??? We'll see!

Commit message:

Passing_sixth
For chords, if next note is higher/lower by a sixth, then four passing notes are incorporated into the second beat of the chord

README.md, after:

# birth_music
##### A program to create an original song based on a birthday inputted (currently in development)

by Jane Plomp

---

## Plans/goals:

#### What I definitely want for end product:

- ~~Accept user input for birthday~~ Drafted

- Make input form impossible to mess up

- ~~Turn birthday into easily accessible array~~ Did a string, can .charAt()

- ~~Set up tone so that notes equated with a variable (do=C4, re=D4, etc), starting with key of C Major. Will eventually update to accommodate different keys~~

- ~~Play one note for each note in birthday (1=do, 2=re, so on and so forth) to make a basic melody. Start and end with do, with birthday notes in between (for musical cohesion) (but listen to how it sounds rhythmically then decide). If last birthday note is ti or higher, go to high do for end. For example, my birthday (07/21/1997) would be: do-ti(low)-ti(high)-re-do-do-re(high)-re(high)-ti-do~~

- ~~Create new keys to use. Key for song = birth month (so January = C major, February = Db major, etc)~~

- ~~Tempo = birth day (1-31) multiplied by 2, plus eighty. (May adjust exact equation based on sound)~~

- ~~Chords = Make each melody note into polyphonic group of notes for chord (melody note = bass). So: in key of C major, if melody at a certain point = la, then play la do and mi (which would become A4, E4, and C4 in this case. By doing in this manner, there will naturally be inversions)~~

- Year mod 12 == Instrument(different synths/settings, etc), based on Chinese zodiac sign
#### What may be challenging, but I intend to exist in end product:

- ~~Chord pattern: arpeggio up, arpeggio down, altogether, any other variation. Uncertain which number(s) to connect to. (Season for notes 2-3, 30/4 intervals for notes 4-5, year (notes 6-9)?)~~

#### Would be fun to add if time is available:

- ~~Make song long through other variations (play forward-backwards-forwarb for ABA song? First A ends on so instead of do?)~~

- Can choose American date version (MMDDYYYY) or normal date version (DDMMYYYY) which alters first four notes of melody.

- Bass notes? More layering? Specific inversion control? triplets??? We'll see!

- ~~Passing notes, for thirds and sixths jumps~~
